README.adoc, before:

= Spring Boot Migrator (SBM)

[quote]
____
Spring Boot Migrator (SBM) aims to help developers upgrade or migrate to https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot[Spring Boot] by providing recipes for automated migrations.
____

== How SBM works

Spring Boot Migrator uses and is compatible with https://github.com/openrewrite/rewrite[OpenRewrite,window=_blank],
a powerful mass refactoring ecosystem for Java and other source code.

Spring Boot Migrator offers a CLI to run recipes to migrate or upgrade a given application to Spring Boot.
For developing new and custom recipes, SBM provides an opinionated API compatible with OpenRewrite recipes
and a set of specialized resource representations to simplify recipe development for Spring Boot.


=== Scan application
A given codebase is scanned and a set of recipes gets evaluated against the codebase. +

image::images/scan.png[]

=== Apply a recipe
The list of applicable recipes is displayed and recipes can be selected from the list to be run against the codebase. +
The recipes either apply automated migrations or guide users on their migration journey.

image::images/apply.png[]


== Getting started

* Download the latest release from here: https://github.com/spring-projects-experimental/spring-boot-migrator/releases[Spring Boot Migrator Releases]
* Start the application: `java -jar spring-boot-migrator.jar`
* In the CLI start by scanning the application `scan <path-to-application>`
* From the list of applicable recipes select the one you want to apply, +
e.g.: `apply initialize-spring-boot-migration` +
Spring Boot Migrator will now apply the migrations defined in the recipe to the codebase.
* To get help when using SBM use the `help` command

WARNING: **The OpenRewrite `rewrite-java-11` module uses JDK internals and thus requires the project to run with JDK 11.**


=== Building from source
* Clone the repository
* Change into root dir
* Run `mvn clean install`
* Find the jar in `applications/spring-shell/spring-boot-migrator.jar`

WARNING: **Some integration tests use Docker so you'll need Docker to run them. +
You can pass the `-DskipTests` flag to the `mvn` command to ignore tests.**

== Documentation

- User documentation TODO: link documentation
- https://spring-projects-experimental.github.io/spring-boot-migrator/developer-documentation.html[Developer documentation,window=_blank]


== Contributing

If you have not previously done so, please sign the https://cla.pivotal.io/sign/spring[Contributor License Agreement]. You will be reminded automatically when you submit the pull request.

All contributions are welcome.

Please refer to the link:CONTRIBUTING.adoc[] for more details.


**This project requires Java 11.**

== License

https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License v2.0]

Commit message:

Add note in README for Windows users

README.adoc, after:

= Spring Boot Migrator (SBM)

[quote]
____
Spring Boot Migrator (SBM) aims to help developers upgrade or migrate to https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot[Spring Boot] by providing recipes for automated migrations.
____

== How SBM works

Spring Boot Migrator uses and is compatible with https://github.com/openrewrite/rewrite[OpenRewrite,window=_blank],
a powerful mass refactoring ecosystem for Java and other source code.

Spring Boot Migrator offers a CLI to run recipes to migrate or upgrade a given application to Spring Boot.
For developing new and custom recipes, SBM provides an opinionated API compatible with OpenRewrite recipes
and a set of specialized resource representations to simplify recipe development for Spring Boot.


=== Scan application
A given codebase is scanned and a set of recipes gets evaluated against the codebase. +

image::images/scan.png[]

=== Apply a recipe
The list of applicable recipes is displayed and recipes can be selected from the list to be run against the codebase. +
The recipes either apply automated migrations or guide users on their migration journey.

image::images/apply.png[]


== Getting started

* Download the latest release from here: https://github.com/spring-projects-experimental/spring-boot-migrator/releases[Spring Boot Migrator Releases]
* Start the application: `java -jar spring-boot-migrator.jar`
* In the CLI start by scanning the application `scan <path-to-application>`
* From the list of applicable recipes select the one you want to apply, +
e.g.: `apply initialize-spring-boot-migration` +
Spring Boot Migrator will now apply the migrations defined in the recipe to the codebase.
* To get help when using SBM use the `help` command

NOTE: When using Windows you must either escape `\` or use `/` as path separator, e.g. `C:\\my\\app` or `C:/my/app`

NOTE: **The OpenRewrite `rewrite-java-11` module uses JDK internals and thus requires the project to run with JDK 11.**


=== Building from source
* Clone the repository
* Change into root dir
* Run `mvn clean install`
* Find the jar in `applications/spring-shell/spring-boot-migrator.jar`

WARNING: **Some integration tests use Docker so you'll need Docker to run them. +
You can pass the `-DskipTests` flag to the `mvn` command to ignore tests.**

== Documentation

- User documentation TODO: link documentation
- https://spring-projects-experimental.github.io/spring-boot-migrator/developer-documentation.html[Developer documentation,window=_blank]


== Contributing

If you have not previously done so, please sign the https://cla.pivotal.io/sign/spring[Contributor License Agreement]. You will be reminded automatically when you submit the pull request.

All contributions are welcome.

Please refer to the link:CONTRIBUTING.adoc[] for more details.


**This project requires Java 11.**

== License

https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License v2.0]
