docs/reference/testing.adoc, before:

== Testing

Different classes exist to help writing tests for ``Recipe``s, ``Condition``s and ``Action``s.

=== TestProjectContext

When testing ``Action``s and ``Condition``s you'll need a initialized ProjectContext as test fixture.
To avoid reading projects for testing from the filesystem the `TestProjectContext` can be used.

The `TestProjectContext` offers ways to create all kinds of ProjectContext instances initialized from resorces given as
strings as if they were read from filesystem. Have a look at the API documentation for details.

- Creates different pom.xml. A blank default, with given dependencies defined, from a given String or as Mockito mock
- Provides a method to register additional ResourceWrapper for specialized resources

[source,java]
.....
String sourceCode = "package com.acme.app;\npublic class MyClass {}";

ProjectContext projectContext = TestProjectContext.buildProjectContext() <1>
        .withBuildFileHavingDependencies("org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter-api:5.7.0") <2>
        .withJavaSources(sourceCode) <3>
        .build(); <4>

// Use ProjectContext to test Action or Condition
.....

<1> Call TestProjectContext static builder method which will inject a mock for ApplicationEventPublisher
<2> Add required dependencies to the classpath (assume they're needed). This will add a pom.xml declaring the provided dependencies.
<3> Add a new Java file with given source to `src/main/java/com/acme/app/MyClass.java`
<4> build and return the initialized ProjectContext.

=== ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport

If you want to create a ProjectContext from filesystem, `ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport` is your friend. +
It assumes a directory `testcode` in the same module as the test resides in.
The initial project is read from a `given` directory inside `testcode`, let's say `testcode/given/my-project`.
The resources are then copied to `target/test-projects/my-project` and the ProjectContext is created from this directory.

[source,java]
.....
@Test
void someTest() {
    ProjectContext projectContext = ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport
                                            .createProjectContextFromDir("boot-23-app");
    // modify ProjectContext
}
.....

Copies all resources from `./testcode/given/boot-23-app` to `./target/test-projects/boot-23-app` and creates a ProjectContext from it.


=== RecipeIntegrationTestSupport

If you want to integration test a recipe against a project read from filesystem, `RecipeIntegrationTestSupport` can help you.

[source,java]
.....
String applicationDir = "example-app"; <1>

RecipeIntegrationTestSupport.initializeProject(applicationDir)
        .andApplyRecipe("boot-2.4-2.5-datasource-initializer"); <2>

Path javaClass = RecipeIntegrationTestSupport.getResultDir(applicationDir).resolve("src/main/java/com/example/SomeJavaClass.java"); <3>

assertThat(javaClass).hasContent("..."); <4>
.....

<1> Provide a project, here under `./testcode/example-app/given`.
This project will be copied to a clean dir `target/test-projects/example-app`
<2> Scan the copied project and apply the given recipe against it
<3> Retrieve the path to a resource after migration
<4> Verify the resource has expected content

=== IntegrationTestBaseClass
For end-to-end tests using the shell commands `IntegrationTestBaseClass` will be helpful. +
These are the most complete tests but also the slowest.

NOTE: Currently these tests reside in `spring-shell` module.

[source,java]
.....
public class MyFullBlownIntegrationTest extends IntegrationTestBaseClass {
    @Override
    protected String getTestSubDir() { <1>
        return "some-dir/project-dir"; <2>
    }

    @Test
    @Tag("integration")
    void migrateSomethingToSpringBoot() {
        initializeTestProject(); <3>
        scanProject(); <4>
        applyRecipe("initialize-spring-boot-migration"); <5>
        applyRecipe("migrate-x-to-boot"); <6>
        // simulate manual step
        replaceFile( <7>
                getTestDir().resolve("src/test/java/com/example/jee/app/PersonServiceTest.java"),
                getTestDir().resolve("manual-step/BootifiedPersonServiceTest.java")
        );
        String localBusinessInterface = loadJavaFile("com.example.jee.app.ejb.local", "ABusinessInterface"); <8>
        // verify @Local was removed
        assertThat(localBusinessInterface).doesNotContain("@Local"); <9>
        executeMavenGoals(getTestDir(), "clean", "package", "spring-boot:build-image"); <10>
        int port = startDockerContainer("jee-app:8.0.5-SNAPSHOT", 8080); <11>
        TestRestTemplate testRestTemplate = new TestRestTemplate(); <12>
        // Test Servlet
        String response = testRestTemplate.getForObject("http://localhost:" + port + "/HelloWorld", String.class); <13>
        assertThat(response).isEqualTo("Hello World!"); <14>
    }
}
.....

<1> The `getTestSubDir()` method must be implemented.
<2> It must return the path to the test project in `src/test/resources`
<3> Copies test project from `src/test/resources/some-dir/project-dir` to `target/sbm-integration-test/some-dir/project-dir`
<4> Scans the copied test project, same as calling `scan` in CLI
<5> Apply the recipe `initialize-spring-boot-migration`, same as calling `apply initialize-spring-boot-migration` in CLI.
Changes will be reflected in the filesystem after this call.
<6> Apply another recipe `migrate-x-to-boot`
<7> Replace a file, here because the Test needs to be migrated manually
<8> Load the content a Java file as String
<9> Assertions about the context of the Java file
<10> Call `mvn clean package spring-boot:build-image` in the test project
<11> Start the docker image from the last step containing the migrated Spring application
<12> Create a RestTemplate
<13> Use the RestTemplate to retrive some data from the migrated Spring application running in Docker
<14> Verify the response

Commit message:

Fix build and run on Windows  (#91)
- Paths unified before applying matcher
- Add LinuxWindowsPathUnifier
- Remove emojis in banner
- Fix problem with ignoredPaths property
- Fix tests and use OS line endings
- Fix MoveFile Action

docs/reference/testing.adoc, after:

== Testing

Different classes exist to help writing tests for ``Recipe``s, ``Condition``s and ``Action``s.

=== Windows & Linux

Linebreaks, encoding and path separator do (most probably will) differ depending on the OS the tests and the application
is executed on.

To make the tests and application run on Windows, Linux and OSX you must take precautions in some cases.

==== Ignoring Line separator in assertions



=== TestProjectContext

When testing ``Action``s and ``Condition``s you'll need a initialized ProjectContext as test fixture.
To avoid reading projects for testing from the filesystem the `TestProjectContext` can be used.

The `TestProjectContext` offers ways to create all kinds of ProjectContext instances initialized from resorces given as
strings as if they were read from filesystem. Have a look at the API documentation for details.

- Creates different pom.xml. A blank default, with given dependencies defined, from a given String or as Mockito mock
- Provides a method to register additional ResourceWrapper for specialized resources

[source,java]
.....
String sourceCode = "package com.acme.app;\npublic class MyClass {}";

ProjectContext projectContext = TestProjectContext.buildProjectContext() <1>
        .withBuildFileHavingDependencies("org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter-api:5.7.0") <2>
        .withJavaSources(sourceCode) <3>
        .build(); <4>

// Use ProjectContext to test Action or Condition
.....

<1> Call TestProjectContext static builder method which will inject a mock for ApplicationEventPublisher
<2> Add required dependencies to the classpath (assume they're needed). This will add a pom.xml declaring the provided dependencies.
<3> Add a new Java file with given source to `src/main/java/com/acme/app/MyClass.java`
<4> build and return the initialized ProjectContext.

=== ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport

If you want to create a ProjectContext from filesystem, `ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport` is your friend. +
It assumes a directory `testcode` in the same module as the test resides in.
The initial project is read from a `given` directory inside `testcode`, let's say `testcode/given/my-project`.
The resources are then copied to `target/test-projects/my-project` and the ProjectContext is created from this directory.

[source,java]
.....
@Test
void someTest() {
    ProjectContext projectContext = ProjectContextFileSystemTestSupport
                                            .createProjectContextFromDir("boot-23-app");
    // modify ProjectContext
}
.....

Copies all resources from `./testcode/given/boot-23-app` to `./target/test-projects/boot-23-app` and creates a ProjectContext from it.


=== RecipeIntegrationTestSupport

If you want to integration test a recipe against a project read from filesystem, `RecipeIntegrationTestSupport` can help you.

[source,java]
.....
String applicationDir = "example-app"; <1>

RecipeIntegrationTestSupport.initializeProject(applicationDir)
        .andApplyRecipe("boot-2.4-2.5-datasource-initializer"); <2>

Path javaClass = RecipeIntegrationTestSupport.getResultDir(applicationDir).resolve("src/main/java/com/example/SomeJavaClass.java"); <3>

assertThat(javaClass).hasContent("..."); <4>
.....

<1> Provide a project, here under `./testcode/example-app/given`.
This project will be copied to a clean dir `target/test-projects/example-app`
<2> Scan the copied project and apply the given recipe against it
<3> Retrieve the path to a resource after migration
<4> Verify the resource has expected content

=== IntegrationTestBaseClass
For end-to-end tests using the shell commands `IntegrationTestBaseClass` will be helpful. +
These are the most complete tests but also the slowest.

NOTE: Currently these tests reside in `spring-shell` module.

[source,java]
.....
public class MyFullBlownIntegrationTest extends IntegrationTestBaseClass {
    @Override
    protected String getTestSubDir() { <1>
        return "some-dir/project-dir"; <2>
    }

    @Test
    @Tag("integration")
    void migrateSomethingToSpringBoot() {
        initializeTestProject(); <3>
        scanProject(); <4>
        applyRecipe("initialize-spring-boot-migration"); <5>
        applyRecipe("migrate-x-to-boot"); <6>
        // simulate manual step
        replaceFile( <7>
                getTestDir().resolve("src/test/java/com/example/jee/app/PersonServiceTest.java"),
                getTestDir().resolve("manual-step/BootifiedPersonServiceTest.java")
        );
        String localBusinessInterface = loadJavaFile("com.example.jee.app.ejb.local", "ABusinessInterface"); <8>
        // verify @Local was removed
        assertThat(localBusinessInterface).doesNotContain("@Local"); <9>
        executeMavenGoals(getTestDir(), "clean", "package", "spring-boot:build-image"); <10>
        int port = startDockerContainer("jee-app:8.0.5-SNAPSHOT", 8080); <11>
        TestRestTemplate testRestTemplate = new TestRestTemplate(); <12>
        // Test Servlet
        String response = testRestTemplate.getForObject("http://localhost:" + port + "/HelloWorld", String.class); <13>
        assertThat(response).isEqualTo("Hello World!"); <14>
    }
}
.....

<1> The `getTestSubDir()` method must be implemented.
<2> It must return the path to the test project in `src/test/resources`
<3> Copies test project from `src/test/resources/some-dir/project-dir` to `target/sbm-integration-test/some-dir/project-dir`
<4> Scans the copied test project, same as calling `scan` in CLI
<5> Apply the recipe `initialize-spring-boot-migration`, same as calling `apply initialize-spring-boot-migration` in CLI.
Changes will be reflected in the filesystem after this call.
<6> Apply another recipe `migrate-x-to-boot`
<7> Replace a file, here because the Test needs to be migrated manually
<8> Load the content a Java file as String
<9> Assertions about the context of the Java file
<10> Call `mvn clean package spring-boot:build-image` in the test project
<11> Start the docker image from the last step containing the migrated Spring application
<12> Create a RestTemplate
<13> Use the RestTemplate to retrive some data from the migrated Spring application running in Docker
<14> Verify the response
